and they journeyed from Elim and all the
and they journeyed from Elim and all the congregation of the children of Israel
congregation of the children of Israel
congregation of the children of Israel came to the wilderness of sin which is
came to the wilderness of sin which is
came to the wilderness of sin which is between Elim and Sinai on the fifteenth
between Elim and Sinai on the fifteenth
between Elim and Sinai on the fifteenth day of the second month after they
day of the second month after they
day of the second month after they departed from the land of Egypt then the
departed from the land of Egypt then the
departed from the land of Egypt then the whole congregation of the children of
whole congregation of the children of
whole congregation of the children of Israel complained against Moses and
Israel complained against Moses and
Israel complained against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness and the children
Aaron in the wilderness and the children
Aaron in the wilderness and the children of Israel said to them oh that we are
of Israel said to them oh that we are
of Israel said to them oh that we are died by the hand of the Lord in the land
died by the hand of the Lord in the land
died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt when we sat by the pots of meat
of Egypt when we sat by the pots of meat
of Egypt when we sat by the pots of meat and when we ate bread to the fall for
and when we ate bread to the fall for
and when we ate bread to the fall for you have brought us out into this
you have brought us out into this
you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly
wilderness to kill this whole assembly
wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger then the Lord said to Moses
with hunger then the Lord said to Moses
with hunger then the Lord said to Moses behold I will rain bread from heaven for
behold I will rain bread from heaven for
behold I will rain bread from heaven for you and the people shall go out and
you and the people shall go out and
you and the people shall go out and gather a certain quota every day that I
gather a certain quota every day that I
gather a certain quota every day that I may test them whether they will walk in
may test them whether they will walk in
may test them whether they will walk in my law or not and it shall be on the
my law or not and it shall be on the
my law or not and it shall be on the sixth day that they shall prepare what
sixth day that they shall prepare what
sixth day that they shall prepare what they bring in and it shall be twice as
they bring in and it shall be twice as
they bring in and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily then Moses and
much as they gather daily then Moses and
much as they gather daily then Moses and Aaron said to all the children of Israel
Aaron said to all the children of Israel
Aaron said to all the children of Israel and evening you shall know that the Lord
and evening you shall know that the Lord
and evening you shall know that the Lord has brought you out of the land of Egypt
has brought you out of the land of Egypt
has brought you out of the land of Egypt and in the morning you shall see the
and in the morning you shall see the
and in the morning you shall see the glory of the Lord for he hears your
glory of the Lord for he hears your
glory of the Lord for he hears your complaints against the Lord but what are
complaints against the Lord but what are
complaints against the Lord but what are we that you complain against us this
we that you complain against us this
we that you complain against us this shall be seen when the Lord gives you
shall be seen when the Lord gives you
shall be seen when the Lord gives you meat to eat in the evening and in the
meat to eat in the evening and in the
meat to eat in the evening and in the morning bread to the full for the Lord
morning bread to the full for the Lord
morning bread to the full for the Lord hears your complaints which you make
hears your complaints which you make
hears your complaints which you make against him and what are we your
against him and what are we your
against him and what are we your complaints are not against us but
complaints are not against us but
complaints are not against us but against the Lord when Moses spoke to
against the Lord when Moses spoke to
against the Lord when Moses spoke to Aaron say to all the congregation of the
Aaron say to all the congregation of the
Aaron say to all the congregation of the children of Israel come near before the
children of Israel come near before the
children of Israel come near before the Lord for he has heard your complaints
Lord for he has heard your complaints
Lord for he has heard your complaints now it came to pass as Aaron spoke to
now it came to pass as Aaron spoke to
now it came to pass as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation of the children
the whole congregation of the children
the whole congregation of the children of Israel but they looked toward the
of Israel but they looked toward the
of Israel but they looked toward the wilderness and behold the glory of the
wilderness and behold the glory of the
wilderness and behold the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud
Lord appeared in the cloud
Lord appeared in the cloud and the Lord spoke to Moses I have heard
and the Lord spoke to Moses I have heard
and the Lord spoke to Moses I have heard the complaints of the children of Israel
the complaints of the children of Israel
the complaints of the children of Israel speak to them saying at twilight you
speak to them saying at twilight you
speak to them saying at twilight you shall eat meat and in the morning you
shall eat meat and in the morning you
shall eat meat and in the morning you shall be filled with bread and you shall
shall be filled with bread and you shall
shall be filled with bread and you shall know that I am the Lord your God
sir it was that quails came up at
sir it was that quails came up at evening and covered the camp and in the
evening and covered the camp and in the
evening and covered the camp and in the morning the dule all around the camp and
morning the dule all around the camp and
morning the dule all around the camp and when the layer of Joule lifted there on
when the layer of Joule lifted there on
when the layer of Joule lifted there on the surface of the wilderness was a
the surface of the wilderness was a
the surface of the wilderness was a small round substance as fine as frost
small round substance as fine as frost
small round substance as fine as frost on the ground so when the children of
on the ground so when the children of
on the ground so when the children of Israel saw it they said to one another
Israel saw it they said to one another
Israel saw it they said to one another what is it for they did not know what it
what is it for they did not know what it
what is it for they did not know what it was and Moses said to them this is the
was and Moses said to them this is the
was and Moses said to them this is the bread which the Lord has given you to
bread which the Lord has given you to
bread which the Lord has given you to eat this is the thing which the Lord has
eat this is the thing which the Lord has
eat this is the thing which the Lord has command let every man gather it
command let every man gather it
command let every man gather it according to each one's need one Omer
according to each one's need one Omer
according to each one's need one Omer for each person according to the number
for each person according to the number
for each person according to the number of persons let every man take for those
of persons let every man take for those
of persons let every man take for those who are in his tent then the children of
who are in his tent then the children of
who are in his tent then the children of Israel did so and gathered some more
Israel did so and gathered some more
Israel did so and gathered some more some less so when they measured it by
some less so when they measured it by
some less so when they measured it by OMERS he who gathered much had nothing
OMERS he who gathered much had nothing
OMERS he who gathered much had nothing left over and he who gathered little had
left over and he who gathered little had
left over and he who gathered little had no lack every man had gathered according
no lack every man had gathered according
no lack every man had gathered according to each one's need and Moses said let no
to each one's need and Moses said let no
to each one's need and Moses said let no one leave any of it till morning
one leave any of it till morning
one leave any of it till morning notwithstanding they did not heed Moses
notwithstanding they did not heed Moses
notwithstanding they did not heed Moses but some of them left part of it until
but some of them left part of it until
but some of them left part of it until morning and it bred worms and stank
morning and it bred worms and stank
morning and it bred worms and stank and Moses was angry with them so they
and Moses was angry with them so they
and Moses was angry with them so they gathered it every morning every man
gathered it every morning every man
gathered it every morning every man according to his need and when the Sun
according to his need and when the Sun
according to his need and when the Sun became hot it melted
became hot it melted
became hot it melted and so it was on the sixth day that they
and so it was on the sixth day that they
and so it was on the sixth day that they gathered twice as much bread Tuomas for
gathered twice as much bread Tuomas for
gathered twice as much bread Tuomas for each one and all the rulers of the
each one and all the rulers of the
each one and all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses and he
congregation came and told Moses and he
congregation came and told Moses and he said to them this is what the Lord has
said to them this is what the Lord has
said to them this is what the Lord has said tomorrow is a Sabbath rest a holy
said tomorrow is a Sabbath rest a holy
said tomorrow is a Sabbath rest a holy Sabbath to the Lord
Sabbath to the Lord
Sabbath to the Lord fake what you will bake today and boil
fake what you will bake today and boil
fake what you will bake today and boil what you will boil and lay up for
what you will boil and lay up for
what you will boil and lay up for yourselves all that remains to be kept
yourselves all that remains to be kept
yourselves all that remains to be kept until morning so they laid it up till
until morning so they laid it up till
until morning so they laid it up till morning
morning
morning as Moses commanded and it did not stink
as Moses commanded and it did not stink
as Moses commanded and it did not stink nor were there any worms in it then
nor were there any worms in it then
nor were there any worms in it then Moses said eat that today for today is a
Moses said eat that today for today is a
Moses said eat that today for today is a Sabbath to the Lord today you will not
Sabbath to the Lord today you will not
Sabbath to the Lord today you will not find it in the field six days you shall
find it in the field six days you shall
find it in the field six days you shall gather it but on the seventh day the
gather it but on the seventh day the
gather it but on the seventh day the Sabbath there will be none now it
Sabbath there will be none now it
Sabbath there will be none now it happened that some of the people went
happened that some of the people went
happened that some of the people went out on the seventh day to gather but
out on the seventh day to gather but
out on the seventh day to gather but they found none and the Lord said to
they found none and the Lord said to
they found none and the Lord said to Moses how long do you refuse to keep my
Moses how long do you refuse to keep my
Moses how long do you refuse to keep my Commandments and my laws see for the
Commandments and my laws see for the
Commandments and my laws see for the Lord has given you the Sabbath therefore
Lord has given you the Sabbath therefore
Lord has given you the Sabbath therefore he gives you on the sixth day bread for
he gives you on the sixth day bread for
he gives you on the sixth day bread for two days let every man remain in his
two days let every man remain in his
two days let every man remain in his place
place
place no man go out of his place on the
no man go out of his place on the
no man go out of his place on the seventh day so the people rested on the
seventh day so the people rested on the
seventh day so the people rested on the seventh day and the house of Israel
seventh day and the house of Israel
seventh day and the house of Israel called its name Manor and it was like
called its name Manor and it was like
called its name Manor and it was like white coriander seed and the taste of it
white coriander seed and the taste of it
white coriander seed and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey and
was like wafers made with honey and
was like wafers made with honey and Moses said this is the theme which the
Moses said this is the theme which the
Moses said this is the theme which the Lord has commanded filling Omar with it
Lord has commanded filling Omar with it
Lord has commanded filling Omar with it to be kept for your generations that
to be kept for your generations that
to be kept for your generations that they may see the bread with which I fed
they may see the bread with which I fed
they may see the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness when I brought you
you in the wilderness when I brought you
you in the wilderness when I brought you out of the land of Egypt Moses said to
out of the land of Egypt Moses said to
out of the land of Egypt Moses said to Aaron take a pot and put an omer of
Aaron take a pot and put an omer of
Aaron take a pot and put an omer of manna in it and lay it up before the
manna in it and lay it up before the
manna in it and lay it up before the Lord to be kept for your generations as
Lord to be kept for your generations as
Lord to be kept for your generations as the LORD commanded Moses so Aaron laid
the LORD commanded Moses so Aaron laid
the LORD commanded Moses so Aaron laid it up before the testimony to be camped
it up before the testimony to be camped
it up before the testimony to be camped and the children of Israel ate manna 40
and the children of Israel ate manna 40
and the children of Israel ate manna 40 years until they came to an inhabited
years until they came to an inhabited
years until they came to an inhabited land the eighth manner until they came
land the eighth manner until they came
land the eighth manner until they came to the border of the land of King now an
to the border of the land of King now an
to the border of the land of King now an Omaha is one tenth of an ephah
Omaha is one tenth of an ephah
Omaha is one tenth of an ephah [Music]